As we mentioned earlier,
there are many use cases for which classic Machine Learning is sufficient and reliable.
One example is the Otsu's method used to segment and classify tissues.
To paint a picture of how good classic Machine Learning could be,
we'll take a look at Otsu's method.
It's often used for separating images from their background,
a technique called background extraction,
which is often something we do in medical imaging.
Remember how much we've done with intensity distributions,
Otsu's method relies on these.
It takes the intensity distribution of an image and searches it to find
the intensity threshold along the x-axis
that minimizes the variance in each of the two classes,
one class being background and one being foreground.
Once it discovers that threshold,
it considers every pixel on one side of that to be background,
and on the other side to be image.
Otsu's method works really well and is
an excellent example of Classic Machine Learning for segmentation.
Here, since the background and the breast have different intensity profiles,
we can separate them easily.
You could extend Otsu's method to classification if you get creative.
Let's say we have a bunch of images that belong to two different tissue types,
one is healthy lung tissue and one is lung tissue from a smoker.
Then let's say we applied Otsu's method just like
before to remove the background from all images.
We could then look at
the intensity distributions for each of the two tissue types without
any background pixels and identify where their intensity peaks or modes are.
Finally, for any new image,
you could try to classify which type of tissue it was
based on where its peak or mode of intensity values lies.
In this example, the image would be closest to healthy lungs,
so you would predict healthy.
Stretch yourself and think about this as you
work through the exercise at the end of this lesson.